Today.
we recovered two more victims
from the crawlspace.
Medical and dental records
will be required
to identify the deceased.
He is in custody.
Parents
reported the boy's missing.
CPD kept doing nothing.
Files on every missing kid
that fits Gacy's MO.
plus anything
you have on Gacy himself.
Most of Gacy's alleged victims
were either male prostitutes
or other homosexuals.
They came
looking for a good time
and got more than
they bargained for.
He wasn't like that.
Not like what they're saying
like those other boys.
He wasn't like that.
Gacy attacks Jeffrey Rignall.
State's attorney's office
declines to prosecute.
They called it
homosexual horseplay.
-He's sick.
-So walk away.
Most lawyers go their whole
careers chasing cases like this.
Step right up. head-shrinker.
It's good to meet you.
John Gacy. face of insanity.
That's how we win.
Is John Wayne Gacy
competent to stand trial?
No. Look.
my client is mentally ill.
I've. I've seen it firsthand.
I've seen him jerk
from one personality
to another while in custody.
His voice changes.
-Jesus Christ.
He. he looks different.
And I'm no expert. but I...
Oh. perfect timing.
How'd you get a TV in here?
Guards and me
work somethin' out. Excuse me.
If you can please be patient...
You like bein' a star. Sam?
'Cause you're making me
out to be a real loon.
And I don't care what
that lady doctor had to say
'cause she wasn't
paying attention.
and that's malpractice
is what that is.
I laid it all out
for her real nice.
bit by bit. my whole life story.
And what do I get? I wind up
looking like some crazy fag.
I mean. what's my ma
gonna think. huh?
I wanna talk to the press.
You can't be
the only one talking
when you don't know
what you're sayin'.
We are using the press
to save your neck.
It's part of our strategy.
-Shut up.
Bob. when you
get to know me real good.
you'll figure it out.
You'll see.
Nobody talks better than me.
I'll have them eating right
out of my palm. Both palms.
Uh. can we talk about
that strategy for a minute?
-Yeah. Sure.
-In light of your psych evals.
we're advising you
plead not guilty
by reason of insanity.
-Oh. God.
Here we go with this.
How about we plead innocent
by reason of self-defense?
-How?
How would you propose
we do that. John.
considering everything?
You really are as sharp
as a bowlin' ball
if I gotta tell you this again.
Blackmail. extortion.
robbery. assault.
They were all
takin' advantage of me.
That is a steep road to climb.
Sorry.
It's too much work for you.
Kunkle wants you dead.
Fried. Do you get that?
We're asserting
the insanity defense
to keep you from being executed.
Look. look. I get it.
I get that you feel
like a sitting duck.
It's hard being in here. Okay?
But we have a job to do
and we are fucking doing it.
Now you gotta trust us.
Find something to do
with your time.
Keep yourself busy.
I heard they have
ping-pong in here.
Maybe get good at that.
Can I talk to you for a second?
Don't do this.
We're here. We're fine.
Came down on high.
It's snow.
It's a little fuckin' snow.
I... We gotta shut it down.
This is bullshit.
You haven't found any
new victims recently. right?
It's been a couple days. yeah.
Doesn't mean
they're not down there.
Map says 27. You've pulled 27.
Who knows if this fuck's
tellin' the truth?
We can get back down there
after the storm.
Where are we
at IDing the victims?
We've hit some speed bumps.
Families have stopped
dropping off personal items.
fingerprints. phone calls.
It's all died down.
I mean. I barely got a couple
dozen dental records.
Oh. we all know why that is.
Hey. I'm on your side.
Look. I'm following up
on a couple of leads.
I just need you to take it easy.
Let me dig. Send them home.
Nobody'll know. Just you and me.
You gotta get some rest.
Pack it up.
Everybody's
shittin' their pants.
Unsafe to drive
or some bullshit.
Shut it down
'till the storm passes.
Oh. fuck off. Go home.
Yeah?
I'm Lieutenant Joe Kozenczak.
Des Plaines PD.
I'm looking for Jeffrey Rignall.
What police department
did you say you were from?
Des Plaines.
I'm the lead on the
John Wayne Gacy case.
What do you want?
-May I come in?
-No.
Last year. you filed
a police report for assault?
You named Gacy as the assailant.
Would you like to tell me
exactly what happened?
I already did. Everything.
You did nothing.
So I got nothing left to say.
That. that was Chicago PD.
You think I give a fuck?
You're too late.
I need your help.
If I'm gonna fix this.
I need to understand
what went wrong.
You can't fix this.
I shouldn't
have to explain it to you.
Kids died 'cause of you.
He's so cool guy.
It's exciting.
Have you
talked to him about it?
Kinda feel it.
Oh. yeah. Oh. yeah.
I think he likes you. honestly.
I'm gonna miss you. Phil.
And I'm gonna
miss you more. Dale.
No.
What am I gonna do
in this place without you?
Believe me.
I don't wanna
move out to the boonies
with just my pops.
Yeah. Yeah. I know.
Shit. I wish my dad was dyin'.
Nah. you don't mean that.
Fuck that.
What's this?
Bus ticket.
Come visit me.
If you ever want to.
I'll be there.
Would love it.
I don't know you.
I don't know your deal.
But whatever
it is between you two?
Is fuckin' beautiful.
My brother's
movin' to Pennsylvania.
Y'all brothers?
-Basically.
-I mean. not blood brothers.
but close enough.
That's good.
Yo.
Bring that shit over here.
Give these guys
whatever they want.
Go ahead and take it.
Ah. so my name's Billy.
Dale.
This is Phil.
My folks.
they're deep in the bottle.
ya dig?
Had to look out for number one.
So I got a job instead.
Yeah. I was talkin'
about this earlier.
Parents ain't shit.
Fuck that somber shit.
Look at us now.
Fine-lookin' studs.
Yeah. We. we.
we just work
at the movie theater.
Not exactly
rollin' in the dough like you.
Yaow. Woo.
No jive. You sell drugs. right?
Nah. I fuck for money.
You're interested?
Cats like you
could get top dollar.
Like sex. right?
Yeah. like sex.
You a hustler.
Fuck. yeah. baby.
And livin' is easy.
You guys hirin'?
Well. I... I'm turning into
a high as fuck pumpkin here.
I still need to pack.
Let's go. Dale.
Yeah. we got all night.
You can pack later.
Yeah. Phillip. Pack later.
I can't go home this high.
My dad'll break my other arm.
Hey. don't you worry. Phillip.
We'll take good care of him.
you know?
I'll come see you
in the morning before you go.
All right. I'm out at 8:00 AM.
You won't make it.
I'll make it.
Damn.
Okay. fuck it. Give it to me.
Dude. you just did it.
-You go ahead.
-All right. Fuck it.
Fuck it. Fuck it.
-Here we go.
-Cheers.
Oh.
Cezanne's my favorite.
He did impressions.
What kind of impressions?
Landscapes mostly.
So you're a painter too?
I'm the real deal.
That's why I need supplies.
I can paint something for you.
-Like what?
-You like Disney?
Not really.
Who doesn't like Disney?
I mean. Mickey? Bambi?
Doc. Grumpy. Happy?
I'm a grown-ass man.
Well. you gotta like
Jesus Christ.
You like him?
Yeah. I like him all right.
Okay. I'll do him for you.
You want thorns on him?
Sure. You any good?
Any good?
Your ears mucked up. Jenkins?
I'm telling you. I'm not
drawing stick figures here.
It'll be like you died and
are nose-to-nose with God.
I just need those supplies.
Nothing I can do.
Above my pay grade. buddy.
Oh. man.
Okay. I get it.
Rules are rules.
Good on you.
You're doing your job right.
You're reliable and trustworthy.
I could've used you
at my company.
It's just sometimes
you really wanna do things
for yourself. you know?
Take control.
Makes you wanna
scream sometimes.
It's so frustrating.
Makes you feel like
not much of a man. don't it?
I mean. you get it.
You said so yourself.
I didn't say that. John.
You said you had no power.
I get to leave here tonight
and you don't.
That's a good point.
I didn't mean nothing by it.
No disrespect.
It's just... it was so impressive
how Chuck. the night guard.
got me a TV all to myself.
Nah. I don't want
you to think twice about it.
I'll just see if Chuck can
come through for me again.
-Ten minutes.
-Okay.
You tell him
you just wanted to talk?
No. I told him I was
a Jehovah's fucking Witness.
Rignall's pissed.
Hell. I'd be too.
I wouldn't talk to us either.
Everybody fucked everything up.
Well. he'd be good on the stand.
We could get a subpoena.
make him talk.
Did you hear
anything I just said?
We gotta be gentle with him.
We'll let him cool off.
Besides. I got somebody else
I'm hunting down.
It's embarrassing. you know?
It's fucking embarrassing.
We treated him like shit.
There is a time and a
place to straighten things out.
Today ain't it.
"Today ain't it."
That's probably the reason
all this is happening
in the first place.
Hey. hey.
Do you mind
if we just handle this guy first
before we fix the world?
Thanks for coming in. David.
With the weather and everything.
I mean. the snow is really
coming down out there.
So. um. you worked for Gacy?
I. uh... For a bit.
How'd you win that lottery?
I mean. we've been doing
this for a month now
and there's
not a lot of you left.
You know. alive.
How'd you meet?
Uh. in '76. I was hitchhiking
down Elston Ave..
coming from my job.
John pulls up
and offered me a ride.
How'd you find him? Was he nice?
Just like anybody else.
He told me
I seem like a good worker.
That's hard to find in kids
these days.
And... Then he said
he did construction
and he offered me a job.
And my grandma
had started charging me rent.
So John was offering
five dollars an hour.
He said I could start
right away. uh...
Painting a hot dog stand.
How long did you work for him?
Um. a few months
before I moved in
and then a year after that.
Moved in where?
Uh. with him.
Him who? Him Gacy?
Look. my grandma
lived a ways away
and I'd show up for work late.
John would dock my pay
and lose his shit.
And he said
he just got a divorce.
He got the house to himself.
and extra room.
And he charged me
way less rent than my grandma.
And what did you all...
do together?
I don't know. Uh. I mean.
he. he liked to have fun.
Was work hard. play hard.
he said.
And his business was all right.
There were lots of other guys.
So we would drink and. um...
David.
we're not here to bust you.
Not yet.
Ignore him. What'd you guys do?
You did some drugs together?
What? Weed? Okay.
Anything else? Cocaine? Uppers?
Did you fuck him?
Were you ever intimate?
He. uh...
Um. he...
He told me
that he paid for things.
My food. um. drugs.
And sometimes I'd fuck up.
I'd maybe mess up
his tools by accident.
And he would say
that I owed him.
You're not answering
the question. David.
No. No. Let's forget about that.
I. I wanna talk about this.
There's a bunch of dead kids
under that house.
You lived there.
You didn't know anything. hmm?
You didn't see anything?
You're telling me
you didn't smell anything?
I never saw him murder anyone.
Hey. look at me.
This guy's a good cop.
He has the say on
who gets charged with what.
But I have some sway.
And I am telling you...
that I will ruin
your life in an instant.
Uh. One time.
he paid me extra...
to dig him a trench...
in his crawlspace.
You were in church
earlier today?
What were you doing in church?
So you were in church
and then you came here?
I don't wanna know.
My man. You're still shitfaced?
Been flying all night.
Ready to land.
We're just getting
our second wind.
Oh. man.
Julian. get this man a pancake
platter and a cold beer.
Pronto. That's for everyone.
You keep the rest. huh?
-All right. Yeah. Here.
-You want a bump?
-No.
-Okay.
Yeah.
You said bye to Phil?
Didn't make it.
Aw. man. That sucks.
Hey. You love him. huh?
-You know.
-Yeah.
He knows that. He loves you too.
So take me to the bakery
'cause I want that bread.
Okay. stud.
Enthusiasm's half the game.
I love hustling.
Love making money.
Love making people feel.
uh. appreciated.
It's powerful.
-Hmm.
Are the girls
who pay you all that cash
old or ugly or something?
Girls? Look around. my man.
Hookers.
All these guys are hookers?
No. Not the older guys.
-Don't get me wrong...
-Hmm.
I dig it.
Whatever you wanna do. do.
But I ain't queer.
Queer. Straight. Bisexual.
What's it matter. hmm?
Plenty of these guys
here are straight.
When they clean their house too.
Like. you know. uh.
it's not for everyone.
Believe me.
I don't wanna pressure you.
No. it's all good.
How much you pulling down?
Prices vary. of course.
A lot to take
into consideration.
Two. three hundred a week.
Hot damn.
Cheekbones. ass like yours?
I'm just saying.
You could pull in more.
It'd take a month to make
that at the theater.
We're all selling our bodies.
Why not get the most for it.
huh?
Let me introduce
the legendary...
-Hmm.
-matriarch of Uptown herself.
Sophia Saint Laurent.
Uh-uh. Matriarch sounds like
an old stuck-up bitch.
If the stiletto fits.
I'll shove
my stiletto up your ass.
This is the Land of the Free.
You got options here.
The more open you are.
the more options you get.
There's Harvey.
Let him suck your dick.
you get $50.
And that's plush. 'cause
most guys only drop 20 for that.
Shit. I'd only go to him then.
Nah. Let the guy come up to you.
Keep him dangling.
And who is this tall. dark.
and handsome lollipop
you're hiding?
-Don't mind her. She's in heat.
-Ooh.
-I'm Dale.
-Hmm.
Welcome to the stroll. baby.
You're gonna do
just fine out here.
Now. play it a little dumb.
The old hawks don't like it
when you're smarter than them.
What's a hawk?
Hawks are everywhere.
All looking for chickens.
Us. Ripe for the plucking.
Finger-licking good.
That dude
there in the Pontiac?
Another easy score.
He'll lick shit off your boots.
hand you 30 bucks.
Fuck off.
No judgment.
I don't have the money for this.
I got you. You got me.
You take a cut?
More like. it's an investment.
You think I can fuck
all these hawks myself?
Father Blake.
As in "man of God" father.
He's a local.
Pays a hundred for whatever.
but they gotta be young.
So...
do you do everything?
Everything is a negotiation.
But I've been doing this
for a while now.
Open to a lot.
Did Billy tell you
about pairing up?
Never turn a trick alone.
Why?
'Cause that's how you go
missing forever.
We got a system.
Walk up to the car.
Write down the plate.
If something goes upside down.
we know who you're with.
If something don't feel right.
you walk away.
You make the rules.
Don't fucking forget that.
That is fucking essential.
You're young and hot.
You'll always have
your pick of the litter.
All right. my sweets.
Go make that money
and I'll see you in the morn.
♪ Yeah. rock on ♪
Did you call Dr. Healy?
Uh-hmm. I had to
set the record straight.
No. You threatened her.
I did not.
I corrected her memory.
John.
Jesus fucking Christ. John.
We need her for your defense.
Maybe I should defend myself.
That's a great idea.
The last time
I let you run your mouth.
you talked your way
out of a plea deal.
You need to think
outside the box.
You told me you killed 33 boys.
I was drunk and high.
Cops were chasing me.
And you gave me more to drink.
I would've confessed to the
St. Valentine's Day Massacre
if it was put to me.
What the fuck?
Why are you mad at me?
I'm mad at you.
You've let me down
at every turn.
I'm in here 'cause of you.
And you won't let me talk to
the prosecutor. the press.
Now the shrink. I mean...
What are those?
Letters. Fan mail. actually.
Midge from North Dakota
thinks I'm innocent.
Jimmy from Tallahassee
doesn't think I'm crazy.
And there's a...
there's a whole bunch more.
I could keep reading them
out to you.
John. Midge and Jimmy
won't be in your jury pool.
Yeah. That's what I'm saying.
We should get them in there.
don't you think?
That's not how...
Fucking stop thinking
about Midge from Kansas!
-North Dakota.
Stop calling anybody
but your mother and your sister.
Do you hear me?
Do you hear me. John?
-Yeah. I hear you.
-Good. Good.
Start listening
before it's too fucking late.
because we are almost there.
What are we doing here?
What did you think
these trenches were for?
I just did what I was told.
He say anything else?
Just get down there
and dig and you dug?
No. Sewer lines.
He. he said
sewer lines for flooding.
What are those flags?
Well. that... that's a person.
And that's a person.
That's... well. or.
you know. was a person.
Where were you digging?
Um...
It was over here.
This was my room.
where I slept.
John slept here.
We were digging
somewhere around here.
So you're down there.
face in the shit.
and you are telling us
that you had no clue?
About what?
About the bodies. David.
You lived above 27 dead bodies
and you expect us to believe
that you had no idea?
You don't understand
what it was like with him.
-What it was like living here.
-Okay.
Why don't you tell us?
Help us out.
Make us understand. hmm?
What'd he do to you?
I...
I had to wear
two pairs of jeans to sleep.
The fuck are you talking about?
"You scratch my back
and I'll scratch yours."
That's what he said to me.
And I didn't know
what that meant until he...
It was my birthday.
My present.
He climbed on top of me.
And he took it out
and he put it in me.
He attacked you.
Why didn't you call the police?
'Cause he said he had
people in his back pocket.
Cops. lawyers.
you know. people like you.
Mafia even.
Hmm.
And he said if I gave him
what he wanted.
he would give me more money.
Hmm.
So you're not a victim.
you're a whore.
Did he pay you to
keep your mouth shut
about the murders too?
-No.
-I don't believe you. David.
-I don't believe you. okay?
-He wouldn't stop.
-You're a fucking liar.
-He just wouldn't stop.
Bill. Bill.
Even when I said stop.
he wouldn't.
And I said stop...
a lot of times again and again.
And I...
I said it until...
His eyes were so...
It's like nobody was there.
I mean. it's like
he wasn't even there.
And. yeah. I got scared...
and I stopped saying stop.
So I can lay him out
if it gets crazy. right?
Yeah. Bruce Lee. You got this.
Where you gonna be?
Right here.
In the shadows. my man.
I ain't going nowhere.
You know. it's always like this
for first-timers. you know?
Like what?
Nerves. Adrenaline pumping.
pumping. pumping.
Couple tricks.
you'll be a real ace.
I'm cool now.
Good.
'Cause you got a hawk circling.
Seventy bucks.
He wants you to smack him
around a bit.
More if he can jack off
while you do it.
-Yeah.
-All right.
Surprised you found a place
that was open.
Earth to Sam.
Yeah. Sorry.
Yeah. no. this blizzard
isn't keeping people
from making money.
Hey. I miss this.
You mean dinner with you and me?
Yeah.
And Bob?
I'll take what I can get.
You're Sam Amirante.
Yeah. That's me.
This your wife?
Huh?
You're gonna burn in hell.
you piece of shit.
Hey. Hey.
And who the fuck are you?
Hey. Sam. Sam.
-Watch your fucking mouth.
-Come on. Sam.
-You all right?
-Are you okay?
Yeah.
These people.
Whole thing's un-American.
Are you kidding me?
Being able to spout
an asshole opinion
rooted in a complete
and utter lack of information.
is wholly American.
And we're gonna be manipulating
that very ignorance
to save his life.
The media coverage on this
isn't making it any easier.
Never in the annals of history
has there been so much
pre-indictment publicity.
That's very good.
You should use that next time.
Uh-hmm.
You're not gonna
get a fair trial here.
I mean. we could petition to
move it out of the county.
I saw a news story in Chinese.
Judge Garippo won't grant it.
The case is too shiny
on his resume.
We could motion to hold the
jury selection somewhere else.
Not in China.
of course. but. uh.
somewhere both far away
but close enough
that Judge Garippo will buy in.
To Midge and Jimmy.
wherever they may be.
North Dakota and Tallahassee.
Cheers.
Mr. Sam Amirante?
I don't know the answer.
It is you.
Can we get an autograph?
I loved what you had to say.
Everyone deserves
a strong defense.
We're actually in law school.
Well. there is hope.
And you're Bob Motta.
co-counsel.
In the flesh.
And this. this is my wife. Mary.
Maybe we could
grab a bite sometime.
pick your brains.
I'm out.
But Mr. Motta here is the
real brains of the operation.
He always carries a pen too.
Well. you never know.
Hey. Dale.
Hi. Dale.
Oh.
Hey. babe.
Oh. Hey.
Oh. hey. you see Billy?
Not for a couple weeks.
Huh. Me too.
Probably with Harvey.
You know how he likes to
keep them drugged up
and in the house for a few days
for extra money.
I wish Harvey
would keep me
a few days in the house.
Um. if you see him.
just tell him
I'm looking for him.
Okay.
Fifty. Upfront.
More depending on
what gets you off.
Didn't think you were coming.
Crazy party
last night. brother.
It's Tuesday.
Shit.
Good morning. Can I get you
something to drink?
Can I get a beer? Want one?
Not for breakfast.
You're killing me.
Coffee. Black.
Uh. and two waters please.
Okay.
You're looking sly.
How's life in PA?
Um...
my dad passed.
I'm sorry.
He was in a lot of pain. Tired.
Well. we're here
for a good time.
not a long time.
Speak for yourself. man.
I'm trying to live
as long as possible.
Out in the woods.
Hugging a tree.
Growing my own food.
Government doesn't
even know about me.
Oh. you a hippie now.
Peace. love. and harmony. man.
Yeah. maybe out in the woods.
Not here.
Here you go.
-Can I get a menu?
-Sure.
Thanks.
What about you? Your pops?
Oh. fuck that cat.
Finally got a divorce.
He moved the fuck out.
-Glad to hear it.
-Yeah.
Oh. and. uh.
Denise is about to have a kid.
-Far out.
-Yeah.
-Good for her.
Gonna spoil my nephew.
Get him a fucking pony
or some shit.
Not bad.
Well. what's your new grind?
I know you're not still
working at the theater?
Um. busboy-ing...
at this high-class joint.
Downtown. Killer tips.
Don't bullshit me. I know you.
All right.
I started. uh.
slinging grass for Billy.
You and Billy really
still kicking it then. huh?
Truth is I haven't seen him
in a while.
But. uh. we got a good
operation going.
Are you taking care of yourself?
Thanks.
You know... Um. shit.
Um. I gotta go.
I. uh. forgot something.
No. Wait. Stay. Eat with me.
I. I don't know
when I'm gonna be back.
I'm sorry for being late.
Robert Donnelly?
I'm Lieutenant Joe Kozenczack.
Des Plaines P.D.
I was hoping I could talk to you
about your confrontation
with John Wayne Gacy.
Show me your badge.
Closer. please.
Was wondering
when one of you would show up.
Well. I don't trust
anyone anymore.
I don't care
if you're the mailman.
I don't like walking
on the street too long either.
It's something
that I'm working through.
You know.
he had me laying face down
on the back of his car
for 10 to 15 minutes
while he drove
back to his house.
It's amazing how one minute
can just feel like forever.
You know. I.
I told the police this already.
so I don't know why. why
I'm repeating myself right now.
I. I know.
And I cannot apologize
enough for that.
So. Robert.
I'm gonna need your help
to figure out
how this all happened.
He offered me a drink.
I refused.
That's what set him off.
"You're a guest." he said.
"You should accept
my hospitality."
He told me the house
was soundproof.
That he could kill me
and no one would ever know
because he's a cop.
He handcuffed me.
He raped me over and over.
first on the couch.
and then the bed later.
And then he. uh. he. um...
He dragged you to the bathtub.
He held your head under water
until you blacked out.
He urinated on you.
You read the report. Okay. Okay.
Robert...
it's all in there.
Now that I know
about all these boys
and what happened to them...
I just can't figure out
why he let me live.
Why he. uh.
drove me back to my job
and told me not to tell anyone
because
they wouldn't believe me.
Which was true.
Nobody did.
I wonder...
if this is all
part of some bigger plan.
To make it right.
Nothing can be made right.
All we can do is make sure
this just doesn't happen again.
Now that you're listening.